Hello. My name is Marvin Heemeyer.
Today is, let's see here, April 13, 2004.
I am making this tape. I thought I should make it a year ago.
Made part of it. Didn't like it.
Really didn't think it would make any difference if I didn't make it, but a good friend of mine said I should make it.
And he said I should sit down in front of a videotape machine and do it.
But you're just going to have to take my word that this is Marvin Heemeyer.
Serial number 503-689-471.
And I'm living in Grand Lake, Colorado.
And this tape is about my life since I came up here to Grand Lake in 1991.
I moved up here in the fall of 1991 to...
kind of take a six-month vacation.
Had a guy and his wife who were leasing my muffler shop in Boulder at 4790 Pearl Street.
Guy's name was Doug Branstetter with his wife.
I forget her name right now, but...
Anyway, they were just on a probationary period.
This guy had serious alcohol and drug abuse problems in the past.
Supposedly he was cleaned up. I didn't know if he was or not, but he kept pestering me for jobs.
Finally, I said he could lease the place.
Anyway...
He ran it for four and a half years and everything went to hell.
I guess he got a divorce and different things happened.
I ended up getting it back.
And then I let another guy come along.
I was working down there, working up in Granby, actually, at the muffler shop I had in Granby.
And in Boulder.
Had two different people working for me.
One in Boulder, her name was Christy.
She was from someplace up in South Dakota.
Great worker. Wonderful person. I really appreciated her.
And then a little girl up here.
Dawn...
Gretchen Allison was her name.
And anyway...
So I was running both businesses and this other guy came along named Doug Davis.
He worked at Midas for about nine years as a manager.
He wanted to be a working manager.
So he took over the place.
I gave him a little better deal than the other Doug Branstetter had.
Because Doug seemed to...
The first Doug seemed to have a lot of problems making his payments last year or so.
But we have...
I believe they were for one reason.
And he would never admit it, though.
That's the same way that this Doug Davis, he finally left.
He left here about a month ago.
I got the place back.
The landlord evicted him.
Old Harold Pelley down there evicted him.
And anyway, I took it back.
And hopefully I got it sold to a real nice guy and his wife.
Jeff Sterling and his wife Jennifer.
They should be taking over the first of...
May.
First of May.
Anyway, so I've cashed out of it finally.
And I'm done with it.
And anyway...
Anyway, I moved up here.
That's my history in Boulder.
This is my history up here.
I came up here and after a few months of living here,
I realized this guy down there in Boulder was doing better than I ever thought he would.
So it was all based on...
He kept it based on whether he performed or not.
Of course, he was making all kinds of money.
So I was happy.
He was happy.
And I realized he was going to keep it.
So it came springtime.
It's probably April, I'm thinking.
I decided that I probably ought to buy some property up here to have something to do.
So I looked at this three lots and the two little cabins that I'm living in here right now.
And I had a beautiful view.
And the price was really cheap.
So I bought them.
And I figured I'd spend the next year until this dud guy folded.
Because I didn't know how long it would last.
I figured I'd just fix this house up, these cabins up.
Well, then a friend of mine from Boulder.
A friend.
He was a friend to a point.
I guess you'd call him a friend.
We did a lot of snowmobiling together.
He met me.
He threw the muffler shop down there.
He had a DJ's auto care down there.
Or Dr. John's auto care.
And I did a lot of exhaust work for him.
And he was a snowmobiler.
So we started snowmobiling together.
Without a doubt, I knew he had some problems with dope.
As far as marijuana and drugs were concerned.
I just didn't know how bad it was.
You've got to just kind of ignore that stuff in today's day and age.
You go out there and you find somebody who's a good rider.
You ride with them.
We had a lot of fun together.
Anyway, he...
He called me and said he was looking for a place up here to start a garage.
And he already owned a cabin up here up there on Coff County Road 4.
And I said I'd take a look.
See if I could find anything.
So I started looking.
And there was a guy named Pepper had a little garage down there south of Grand Lake.
Just north of the Ski-Doo dealership that had a bay door on it.
And...
He didn't want anything big.
So I told him about that.
And then I happened to cross a piece of property down there in Granby.
It was an old concrete plant.
And the guy had gone bankrupt.
And had an auction.
And gotten rid of all the stuff he had.
And left a bunch of junk there.
It's my understanding.
But it had a 3,000 square foot building with three bay doors.
That were huge.
It was a great building.
It wasn't the best location.
But it was a good building.
And it had two acres of ground.
And I talked to him about it.
And he said that would be great.
I think he even came up and looked at it.
I can't remember.
But anyway, he said that he was interested.
So we talked to a realtor named Jeff Crane.
Or I talked to him, I should say.
And this was about a month before they were going to have this FDIC auction.
So Jeff says that he'd sell me the property.
We could write up a contract on it if I wanted it.
But he figured it was worth about...
$110,000 or so or more.
And I kind of laughed.
And I said, you know, there's no way it's worth that.
I mean, the property up here was just so depressed in 1991 and 92.
It was terrible.
And I didn't foresee any kind of future up here.
I mean, I hadn't ever lived in the mountains before.
It just didn't seem like a good thing to be buying at that kind of a price.
So I told him, I said, I'd wait until the FDIC had their auction.
And...
I and John talked it over.
And we agreed that, you know, I'd pay $66,000 for it.
At the max.
And if it went higher than that, we wouldn't buy it.
He didn't want it.
So...
The time came and then he paid me a certain amount.
I can't remember if he was going to pay me more than $66,000 for buying it for him.
Or if I was just going to finance it to him.
I know I was going to finance it to him.
But I don't know if it was $66,000.
Or if there was...
It was going to be more.
Anyway, it doesn't make any difference.
Come time for the auction, I...
Jeff Crane was down there with four older guys who were looking to invest some money in some FDIC properties.
And I think there was about 160 properties for sale that day.
And...
Anyway, this one finally came up for bid.
They...
Well, actually, first they told me that there was a EPA audit against the place.
Which was a...
They were recommending a
$26,000 cleanup.
They had all these surveys done by Chen Northern.
Was the...
Was the company contracted to look at it.
But anyway, come to find out later.
Later on that FDIC had done a lot of the cleanup that they had recommended.
And I don't know.
For some reason, I didn't realize that.
So, I told John about it.
Or it came up for sale.
It came up on the block.
And they had a bid for $35,000.
From some guy up in front.
And so, we were going to pay $66,000.
I started waving at them.
They couldn't see me.
So, finally, they caught my bid.
So, I got a bid for $40,000.
This other guy, I couldn't believe it.
I didn't know who he was.
He jumped up on his chair.
That's how I knew where he was.
And I was looking back.
And, of course, he bid $45,000.
And, of course, I bid $50,000.
And I was waiting for him to bid.
And he wouldn't bid.
And so, I got the property for $50,000.
And this guy, come to find out, his name was Cody Docheff.
He came back there and introduced himself to me.
About the rudest, most arrogant person.
I mean, this guy is just a fucking asshole.
Come back and just introduced himself, kind of,
by just giving me a tongue lashing for about 10 minutes
about, you know, who I thought I was
and what I was going to do with the property.
And I explained to him I was buying.
And he said, well, I'm going to buy a property.
And I said, well, I'll tell you, I'll sell you the property.
I said, we were going to pay $66,000.
And, you know, I told him I was selling it to John Kleiner,
who was going to start an automotive store there.
And he didn't want to have anything to do with it.
He said, bullshit.
He said, I only got, Gus Harris was his buddy there,
sitting beside him, I guess.
And Gus was sponsoring the whole financing on this thing.
And Gus wasn't going to pay more than $50,000 for it.
And I said, well, I'm sorry.
But I says, you know, I can't just not come down here
and spend my money and waste my time
and not, you know, make some money on it.
So I offered it to him that day
for what I was going to sell it to John for.
Because I could tell the guy was pissed off.
And I wasn't there to piss off any people.
I mean, this is the only guy
of all the properties that sold before his
that was doing any screaming at anybody during the auction.
I mean, 160 people, or 160 properties were sold that day.
And this is the only fool that didn't come down there
with enough
money
to buy his property.
I mean, this shows you how day late
and a dollar short this fool is.
You know, he thinks he's going to go down there.
I mean, he screwed the whole town of Granby
over the years by going bankrupt.
And, you know, I guess this guy's pretty dramatic.
He tried to, he faked a suicide
jumping off a windmill or some hot, tall building
out there by his place, by Hot Sulphur Springs.
Anyway, you know, he's just, he's going off on me
and wasn't going to pay any more money.
And I says, well, I'm sorry.
I gotta
have $66,000.
I'll let John go find something else.
You know, I'm just trying to be a peacemaker here.
But I got to make some money.
He wouldn't have anything to do with it.
So, you know, I calmed him down.
I mean, I talked to this guy forever, it seemed like.
Everybody around me, they couldn't believe this asshole.
And anyway, so we closed the deal.
He left.
He went away.
And I went and had Jeff Crane sign the broker's statement
that I was purchasing this property and
And as a matter of fact,
going back here a little bit,
when I had first looked at the property
and Jeff had tried to sell it to me,
I had asked him if the former owner
was interested in purchasing the property
at this FDIC auction.
He said he didn't know.
Well, then I called the FDIC to look at it
because there was a number to call.
And they called an agent there in Granby,
a real estate agent named Peter Colley.
So Peter went
out and bought a padlock and I went down there with a cutting torch and we cut the lock that
was on the building off so I could look at it and then of course he put his new padlock on
and uh he showed me the building and it looked like it'd be a good building so anyway I asked
this Peter Colley also if the former owner had any if he knew if the homeowner had any interest
in buying the building and of course he told me he didn't know so okay well I feel that my job is
done you know I I'm gonna go to the auction so we did and I ended up buying it we closed on the deal
and uh you know I came back up to Grand Lake and I got a hold of John Kleiner and told him
that what had happened and this is like I said it was about April of 1992. and uh told him explained
to him that there was an EPA audit against the property because there were some oil stains on
the property there had been an oil fill barrel and you know I don't know if it was that day or a
couple weeks later whenever he you know he just didn't want anything to do with the property all
of a
sudden. And of course, I hadn't taken any deposit from him, so I was stuck with
the property. But he didn't want anything to do with it because of the audit. And of
course, he was from Boulder, and Boulder is pretty, what do you want to call it, eco-Nazi
type. They think they're going to save the world. And that was his fear. I mean, there
were a lot of regulations about dumping oil and all that stuff. So, he didn't want anything
to do with it all of a sudden. Well, I don't know if he didn't have the money or just got
cold feet or what, but I'm stuck with this property, so heck, I don't know what to do
with it. So, that summer, I'm pretty sure it was that summer, I tried cleaning the property
up. It might have been even 92. I may have just let it sit there. I know I let it sit
there.
I didn't have any equipment. I didn't clean it up. But anyway, eventually, I did buy a
backhoe, and I bought a dump truck from my dad, a beat truck. And, you know, I started
cleaning the property up and hauling the steel away. Hauled it over to Geisendorfer's property.
He had a guy that was cutting up steel over there and selling steel, and this kid wanted
it. So, we just high-hauled
everything over there. And, basically, got the place cleaned up pretty nice. Rented a bulldozer, a little D3
from Linky. What's his name? Dick Linky, Southwood Granby there. Pretty good, real good guy.
And he delivered it over there, and I leveled out the ground and the stuff, you know, tried
to make it look pretty presentable, you know. And I didn't know what to do with it. The
guy in Boulder was doing great. So, finally, I decided
that I'd start a muffler
shop and I think I started that either late 92 or late 93. I don't remember anymore. But, you
know, I just started putting on mufflers. I went down in Denver and found a used bender
and brought a used toy stuff that I had down there in Boulder and set it up and started
putting on mufflers and advertising and everything. And, you know, figured I was going to do a
good - good thing. You know, this was maybe an opportunity for me.
Anyway, I'm getting ahead of myself. In 92, I was cleaning the property
up. Yeah, that's the way I went. Because in the summer of 92, after I bought it, a guy
named Bud Wilson, who is the superintendent of the water and sanitation district down
there in Granby,
came to
me and said that
[Dead air]
they wanted me to hook on to the - the annexed end of the water and sanitation districts.
So, I said great. I says what - what do I have to do?
I says do I - is there - do I have to get an attourney invovled or what? He said naw he said he'd do all the paperwork and
there was some kind of fee I think that I had to pay but I don't remember anymore but anyway I was supposed to go to a meeting in
September, I
believe it was and get annexed
in
to the
water
and san.
[Dead air]
And
so we did.
I went to the meeting,
and I just expected it to go through.
It was unbelievable what happened at that meeting.
The main topic of concern that they had with me being annexed into the district
was that they didn't have a maintenance easement across the property
that was just south of me.
It was owned by Gus Harris.
And they had put in a watered sewer line years before,
but it supposedly hadn't gotten this maintenance easement.
And Gus Harris wasn't going to give it to them or something.
You know, I'm not really sure how that all worked,
but this maintenance easement was a pretty big obstacle.
And they basically told me,
the board,
in the fall of 92,
that I would never have water and sewer there
until I got this maintenance easement from this Gus Harris guy.
Well, I was a little upset because, you know,
he was a super, Bud was a superintendent,
and this was supposed to, I thought this was a done deal.
So, you know, I left the meeting,
and I didn't need to listen anymore.
They're crap.
They wasted a lot of my time.
And, you know, I knew that there was some animosity in the community.
I had been getting my hair cut down at this place called Lana's,
and she had told me about how this Cody Docheff guy had tried to kill himself
and had screwed a lot of people in the community
and, you know, had gone bankrupt.
And he was kind of, they were kind of glad that he wasn't there anymore,
that he was outside of town.
He had moved up into Dick Thompson's gravel pit,
north of,
where that location was about a mile,
and was doing concrete, making concrete out of there again.
But anyway,
what the heck was my point?
This Lana had, oh, she told me how upset everybody in the community was
that, at the FDIC,
because what had happened was they had that big savings and loan failure scandal,
back in the
late 70s early
80s
and everybody blamed the FDIC for this plant's failure
and other people's problems that they'd had up there
because what had happened is these people with the savings and loans failed,
these people that owned property and stuff up there
didn't have any place to make payments.
So what they did, they didn't know what to do,
so instead of, you know, putting the money aside every month,
supposedly, they went out and spent the money.
Well, then after a couple of years or whatever,
whatever it took to straighten those deals,
that savings and loan thing out,
FDIC wanted their money all at once
from these people that hadn't made these payments
to these collapsed savings and loans places.
And these people hadn't, didn't have the money.
And so the FDIC, of course, was foreclosing on these properties.
So everybody up there hated the FDIC.
You know, didn't like their practices.
And, of course,
here I am, I'm a beneficiary of the FDIC's actions,
and so I found this out later.
You know, people are pretty angry with me.
You know, they didn't know how to play by the rules.
I played within the parameters of what was supposed to be done.
There were 160 properties sold that day,
and I bought it just like everybody else bought their property.
And, you know, there's no reason why,
why didn't this guy have,
why didn't this guy have enough money
to buy this property?
I mean, it was an auction.
He should have known that there was going to be people bidding against him.
But I honestly believe he thought he was going to get it for next to nothing.
And I believe that because I think the word was out in the community that he wanted it.
And personally, I think the two realtors that showed it to me knew this.
And they just didn't want the guy in the community.
So they told me that they didn't know that he was bidding on it,
or that he wanted it.
But I knew that I would have talked to him.
I would have called him and found out what the deal was.
But anyway,
we, I'm a little disappointed.
And one thing they told me was to stay in touch with the superintendent
in case anything changed.
Well, of course I'll do that.
You know, but that was kind of,
kind of a mistake on my part because it shouldn't have been my responsibility
to keep track of the superintendent.
Which I did.
Because I mean, I took this Bud Wilson out for breakfast on more than one occasion.
He spent a lot of time out there at my shop.
I sold him a Woos, W-U- apostrophe-S, small wheel drive, little dump, garden tractor.
And I mean, I got along and this guy was a pretty good guy.
At least that's the way he came across to me.
So we had a pretty good relationship.
And he never ever mentioned anything to me that anything was changing.
He says it would, you know.
But, you know, I don't know.
It never did.
Well, anyway.
So I just go on about my business.
And finally, I think it was in 94, nothing was happening.
I mean, Bud wasn't telling me anything was changing or anything.
So I went ahead and I said, well, I'm going to build me a boat storage building.
And I'll design it so that I've got three 2,000 square foot
units.
And it was 50 feet wide by 120 feet long.
And that we had three bay doors.
And I was to put in three personnel doors.
And I set the foundation up to have these three bay doors, three personnel doors, so
that I could put inner walls in or divider walls in later on when I finally got on the
water and sewer.
So I could have it for rental.
And this would become my, you know, a good retirement income.
I could rent.
The muffler shop building or sell the muffler shop business.
I could subdivide the property because it was in the city already and fell under their
subdivision rules.
I mean, it was pretty much just a pre-approved thing.
He just had to apply to the town, pay him the fees and, you know, follow the rules for
what was HGB zoning.
And HGB zoning, of course, was the best zoning you could possibly get.
It included everything that was in commercial plus other things that wasn't.
And there was no other zoning that would include more businesses than HGB.
So anyway, I thought this was a good plan and I had this building built and in the fall
of 94 just started advertising for boat storage.
And of course, filled it up the very first year and I was pretty happy with that.
So basically, it was paying the cost of the building.
Well, you know, we just go along.
I'm making
lemons
out
of
lemonade or lemonade out of lemons you know i can't get this darn water sewer going you know
so uh i had the i had a well and a septic system uh which was doing its job and uh i figured that
you know we'll just that'll work you know well of course and knowing that i couldn't uh get on uh
put the other building on a well and sewer because i was in town uh i are well and septic because i
was in town i was going to have to hook onto the water and sewer but not being able to do that
because i didn't have this maintenance even easement and bud never told the thing to me
yet i mean i'm building this building telling him what i'm going to do he knew what was going on but
he never told me that anything had ever changed so i uh continue and do the do the boat storage
and i'm doing muffler works and
so forth by 98 i was doing i don't know i was making a real good income out of there along with
what was coming out of boulder um well actually i got it back in 97 of course as i said and and then
i gave it to this other doug davis guy but i was you know i get income out of boulder and income
out of granby here and life was pretty good and you know i was taking a lot of time off because
you know you don't have to maintain rentals with boat storage you know there wasn't that much
muffler business up here i mean i
only working three days a week in the wintertime there five days a week in the summer which was
typical of any store i ever worked in as far as summer is concerned i never had any store ever
open more than five days a week unless i'd open just open one up that i might work a saturday to
you know make sure all the revenue was coming in anyway i uh i just was going along happy and in
98 i believe it was in the fall this dochef guy oh
or going way back to 92 you know without a doubt i made a mistake oh uh gus harris a couple of months
after i bought this property this guy named gus harris who owned the property south of me
uh was over over there doing some cutting on some steel and i went over to you know medium and see
once if he was cooled down you know because i know that he was upset uh that he they didn't
get this property and here he was i mean actually i'd had a couple of conversations before that time
and he wanted he was willing to sell me the property then for uh seventeen thousand five
hundred dollars and i basically told him this was two months after i bought it that i you know i
didn't buy that property for myself that was there i bought it for somebody else he he was not wanting
to uh uh buy it though oh john did want to buy it so i didn't want to spread myself too thin because
the economy was so bad up here i told him i said i'll think about it and i'd get back to him
well the truth of the matter is about a year later i i less than a year later i i went to him
and i said yeah i said i'd like to buy that property and uh i said is that seventeen thousand
dollar offer still good he says no he says i'd have to have twenty thousand dollars for it and
i talked to his wife about this too about getting these contracts signed so i could buy it and he
never would get back to me as far as getting this deal done so you know i'm still not wanting to
push this deal because this is a small community and you know i need to get back to him and i'm not
to fit in and uh i'm not you know pressured this is not one of those things i felt that you needed
to do in a community where i'm new in anyway uh getting back to 98 now that earlier in 96 or 97
gus harris had sold this two acres to this guy cody docheff
and of course cody had made a comment that you know he wanted my property
back in 97 it was and i had gone out and had a guy make an appraisal wilson was his name
it was Dowdna who was the local appraiser here at Grand Lake still and it was Dowdna and Wilson
and Wilson and Dowdna commercial appraisers and this guy named Wilson had made up an appraisal
on my property in 1997 and came up with a value of 270 thousand dollars and i had offered this
property to cody
for
um
250.
I says, Cody, I'll walk away from my business.
Get everything out of here. You buy this place.
And for $250,000, which was less than the appraisal,
and you're happy, I'm happy.
Cody never would. I gave him a copy of the appraisal.
Never would come back to me with a counteroffer.
So I just kept on about my business.
And in 98, this Docheff guy, he comes onto the property just south of me
and puts up this big circus tent.
And he starts breaking concrete down to build these sewer septic tanks
and manholes, you know, rings and different things that he's making.
And of course, I don't remember.
He was driving right across my property because he had an easement,
which was fine at the time.
You know, I didn't think it was going to get into.
It wouldn't be any big problem.
But, you know, he still hadn't made an offer on my property.
Well, in 99, I think it was, rolled around.
And come to find out, he's going to try to buy the property next door
to the west of me and has a contract on it to purchase it.
It's 21 acres.
Well, I find this out too late.
Um...
No, first what happened was...
How the heck...
I'm not sure how this happened.
If he actually had a contract to get this...
Yeah, he had a contract on it.
But somehow...
He, uh...
He ended up...
He had to have bought it by this time.
Anyway, I tried to buy the property out from under him
because I didn't want no friggin' concrete plant next to me,
especially...
upwind of me.
I mean, I was right in the...
going to be right in the, uh...
dust, uh...
tail of this whole operation.
And that wasn't going to work.
Well, that didn't happen.
The guy...
The guy didn't want it.
And I started, uh...
getting notices that they were going to rezone this property.
And, uh...
What happened?
Oh, he started building.
And, uh...
He ended up putting in what he called a water storage tank.
And a well.
And it's my understanding from a guy here in town named, uh...
Kevin Fisher that...
Because Kevin was working for the guy who did the well
and did the foundation of the building
that, uh...
He got...
This Cody Docheff guy got fined
for putting this well in.
And, I don't know, he just...
He was in trouble already.
And, uh...
It was...
It was kind of interesting.
I didn't...
I didn't know what was going on yet.
But I started getting these...
I...